.\" Manpage for please.
.\" Contact antoniomaria.vigliotti@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH venv_mgr 8
.SH NAME
venv_mgr \- virtual environment management
.SH SYNOPSIS
venv_mgr [options] action [directory]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvenv_mgr\fR is an interactive tool which adds new features to standard virtual environment command.
.P
Action is one of:
.br
* help
.br
* amend [OPTIONS] [SRC_VENV]
.br
* check [OPTIONS] [SRC_VENV]
.br
* cp [OPTIONS] SRC_VENV TGT_ENV
.br
* create -p PYVER [OPTIONS] [VENV]
.br
* exec [OPTIONS] [VENV] CMD
.br
* info [OPTIONS] [VENV] PKG
.br
* install [OPTIONS] [VENV] PKG
.br
* merge [OPTIONS] SRC_VENV TGT_ENV
.br
* mv [OPTIONS] SRC_VENV TGT_ENV
.br
* update
.br
* test [OPTIONS] [VENV]
.br
* reset [OPTIONS] [VENV]
.P
\fBamend\fR [OPTIONS] [SRC_VENV]
.RS
Amend package versions against requirements.
May used after 'create' or 'reset' when requirements are changed.
.RE
.P
\fBcheck\fR [OPTIONS] [SRC_VENV]
.RS
Compare package versions against requirements.
May used after 'create' or 'reset' to check virtual environment consistency.
.RE
.P
\fBcp\fR [OPTIONS] SRC_VENV TGT_ENV
.RS
Copy SOURCE environment directory to TGT_ENV, like the bash command 'cp' and set relative path inside virtual
environment to aim the new directory name.
.RE
.P
\fBcreate\fR -p PYVER [OPTIONS] VENV
.RS
Create a new virtual environment directory VENV like virtualenv command but with some nice features.
Switch -p declare which python version will be used to create new environment.
.br
This action can install various python packages to create a ready to use environment directory.
.br
See -I -D -O -r switches to furthermore information.
.RE
.P
\fBexec\fR [OPTIONS] [SRC_VENV] CMD ...
.RS
Execute a command in virtual environment. Enclose command by quotes.
.RE
.P
\fBinfo\fR [OPTIONS] [SRC_VENV] PKG
.RS
Show information about pypi package if installed in virtual environment
.RE
.P
\fBinstall\fR [OPTIONS] [SRC_VENV] PKG
.RS
Install pypi package or bin package into virtual environment.
.br
Warning! currently just 2 packages can be installed: wkhtmltopdf and lessc
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a
Declare binary packages to install into virtual environment. Currently just 2 packages can be installed:
.br
wkhtmltopdf
.br
lessc
.br
Any other binary package must be installed by os installer (apt-get, dnf, yum, etc.)
.TP
.BR \-D
With create or reset action, install or upgrade development packages.
.TP
.BR \-I
Run isolated mode, without accessing system packages.
.TP
.BR \-O
install pypi required by odoo ver (create or reset)
.TP
.TP
.SH EXAMPLES
venv_mgr create -DI -O 3.5 my_venv
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Antonio Maria Vigliotti (antoniomaria.vigliotti@gmail.com)
