.\" Odoo tests.
.\" Contact antoniomaria.vigliotti@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH odoo_test 8
.SH NAME
odoo_test \- run odoo tests
.SH SYNOPSIS
odoo_test [options] action
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBodoo_test\fR is an interactive tool to run Odoo tests. Do not use more concurrently instances of this tool.
.br

.br
Action is one of:
.br
* help
.br
* chkconfig
.br
* list
.br
* stat
.br
* test
.br
* update
.br

.br
\fBchkconfig\fR
.RS
Analyze system and display configuration parameters.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBlist\fR
.RS
Analyze system and display odoo module can be tested.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBstat\fR
.RS
Show test statistics.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBtest\fR
.RS
Execute odoo test.
\fBWarning\fR execution test temporarily stops odoo service and restarts it after every test is terminated.
The -Q switch restarts service after all tests are terminated.
Then -a switch avoids service halt.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBupdate\fR
.RS
Not yet implemented
.RE
.br

.br
Canonical tree
.RS.br

.br
Odoo files are searched in canonical tree. Option switches -c -F -I -O -r -S and -U can set different odoo tree. Canonical tree is:
.br
* {id-name} is set by -I switch, default is odoo; may be odoo or openerp
.br
odoo {version} is detected, if possible; use -O switch to set it
.br
* configuration file is searched in \fI/etc/{id-name}\fR or \fI/etc\fR
with name {id-name}-server.conf or {id-name}.conf; use -c switch to set it
.br
* odoo user is \fIodoo\fR; may be \fIopenerp\fR for odoo 7.0; use -U switch to set it
.br
* odoo root directory is searched in home directory of user as \fI{version}\fR or \fIv[majorversion}\fR
 i.e: canonical directory may be \fI/opt/odoo/9.0\fR
.br
See http://wiki.zeroincombenze.org/en/Odoo page about Odoo canonical tree.
Use \fBproduct\fR command to install odoo in canonical tree.
For info about \fBproduct\fR software see http://wiki.zeroincombenze.org/en/Product page
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-A
select all test execution in priority order (implies -y); test starts from base module.
 Incompatible with -m and -p option switches.
.TP
.BR \-a
use alternative configuration to run test with concurrently with odoo service (implies -Q).
This option creates a local configuration file, set odoo port service to 8079 and does not stop odoo-service.
.TP
.BR \-c \fIpathname\fR
declare odoo config file; without this option, configuration file is searched
(see above canonical tree for furthermore information)
.TP
.BR \-d \fIdatabase\fR
select database for test (default name is \fBtest\fR); \fBWarning\fR database is destroyed if exists.
.TP
.BR \-F \fIpathname\fR
declare odoo script name to execution test; script is searched in user directory
(see -c -I -O -r and -S options and above canonical tree for furthermore information)
If odoo configuration is not canonical, this option can set actual script name.
.TP
.BR \-I \fIid-name\fR
Set id-name for configuration and detection; id-name may be odoo or openerp (default is odoo)
See above canonical tree for furthermore information.
.TP
.BR \-m \fImodule\fR
select specific module to test. Incompatible with -A and -p option switches.
.TP
.BR \-n
Do nothing (dry-run)
.TP
.BR \-N
create new log for test result; test results are stored in $HOME/testlog/result.log
.TP
.BR \-O \fIversion\fR
Select odoo version to test and detection
(see -c -I -r -F and -S options and above canonical tree for furthermore information)).
This option is mandatory multiple odoo version are installed.
.TP
.BR \-p \fIprio\fR
select modules with specific priority. Incompatible with -A and -m option switches.
.TP
.BR \-P \fIport\fR
Use service port for odoo. Default is 8069.
.TP
.BR \-q
Quiet mode. Hide progress messages.
.TP
.BR \-Q
Quick mode. Do not stop and restart odoo service after every test.
This switch runs odoo test more quickly but stops odoo service until all tests are terminated.
Without this option switch, user connected can be served (slowly).
To avoid trouble to connected users, use -a option switch.
.TP
.BR \-r \fIdirectory\fR
declare root directory of odoo server; without this option switch,
directory is searched in user directory (see -c -F -O and -S options and above canonical tree for furthermore information)
If odoo configuration is not canonical, this option can set actual odoo directory.
.TP
.BR \-S \fIservice\fR
declare odoo service name (see above canonical tree for furthermore information).
.TP
.BR \-t
Show tracelog of every test to console. Tracelog are stored in $HOME/testlog/ directory
.TP
.BR \-U \fIusername\fR
Username to manage odoo service. Set current user if it is odoo or openerp; otherwise is used odoo or openerp.
.TP
.BR \-V
Show version
.TP
.BR \-v
Verbose mode
.TP
.BR \-x
show statistics at the end
.TP
.BR \-y
assume yes for ask confirmation
.SH EXAMPLES
Run odoo test; stop service before test and restart after all tests are terminated;
clear previous statitics and display all messages to console and statistics at the end
.RS
\fBodoo_test -ANtvx test\fR
.RE
.br

.br
Run odoo test concurrently with current odoo service; do not display anything, keep old stattistics
clear previous statitics and display all messages to console
.RS
\fBodoo_test -Aaq test\fR
.RE
.br

.br
Display odoo configuration
.RS
\fBodoo_test chkconfig\fR
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
service
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Antonio Maria Vigliotti (antoniomaria.vigliotti@gmail.com)
