.\" Manpage for product.
.\" Contact antoniomaria.vigliotti@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH product 8
.SH NAME
product \- create and/or manage a LAMP or Odoo server
.SH SYNOPSIS
product [options] action [package|LAMP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBproduct\fR is an interactive tool to install, update, remove, query and manage software for building a complete LAMP server.
LAMP means \fBLinux\fR \fIApache\fR \fIMysql\fR (now \fIMariadb\fR) \fIPHP\fR; in recent times, \fIPython\fR and \fIPostgresql\fR were added.
Notice software name may be replaced, based on Linux distribution and version,  in order to manage LAMP server in standard way,
everytime and everywhere; i.e. when you type \fIproduct install mysql\fR on CentOS 7, your command is replaced by
\fIproduct install mariadb-server\fR because mysql-server is not yet avaiable on this version of Linux distribution.
.br
\fBproduct\fR is just a front-end for \fIrpm\fR, \fIyum\fR, \fIdpkg\fR, \fIapt-get\fR, \fIpip\fR and \fIgit\fR commands, it is not a real package installer.
It requires \fByum\fR on CentOS and Red Hat Enterprise Linux family distros, \fBapt-get\fR on Ubuntu and Debian family distros
and \fBpip\fR on both distributions; it may require \fBgit\fR for some package, i.e. Odoo.
\fBproduct\fR is very useful to manage all the packages needed to build a complete LAMP server and to check the real server status.
For every main package, may be managed some dependent package; i.e. openssh-server includes openssh-client.
Type \fIproduct whatis\fR command to see how product manages and includes packages.
.br
All operations are logged in \fI/var/log/product.log\fR in order to trace operational flow; option -L can set another tracelog.
So, using -n switch, you can simply use \fIproduct\fR just to see which command you should issue to manage software.
.br
You can easily write portable script to install packages on every Linux distribution.
.br

.br
Action is one of:
.br
* help
.br
* install [package|LAMP]
.br
* update [package|LAMP]
.br
* config [package|LAMP]
.br
* remove package
.br
* status
.br
* version [package|LAMP]
.br
* whatis [package|LAMP]
.br
* prepare
.br
* export
.br
* import
.br

.br
\fBinstall\fR
.RS
Install selected package; if no package name supplied or package is LAMP, install all packages to buil a complete LAMP server;
if a package is already installed, is ignored and sub packages are not examined. To install package, \fBproduct\fR choices one
of \fIyum\fR, \fIapt-get\fR or \fIpip\fR.
To install \fBproduct\fR, for the first time download files in /tmp and type \fI./product install product\fR
.br
See http://wiki.zeroincombenze.org/en/Product page for furthermore informations.
.br
With optional switch -D and -w, more other packages are added to installation list.
If package name is LAMP, \fBproduct\fR installes gcc compiler.
.br
When Odoo is required, \fBproduct\fR installes git and issue \fIgit clone\fR command from github.com
in two ways:
.br
1. If -D switch is set (development environment), Odoo is installed and
deployed with full history in \fB/opt/odoo/\fR\fIver\fR where \fIver\fR is 7.0, 8.0 or 9.0;
.br
2. If no development enviroment is set by -D switch, Odoo
is installed without history in \fB/opt/odoo/\fR\fIver\fR, where \fIver\fR is 7.0 or 8.0 or 9.0;
.br
The -O switch select just a specific version of Odoo or all versions (see -O option)
.br
The -e switch must be declared to select Odoo repository to clone (see -e option)
.RE
.br

.br
\fBupdate\fR
.RS
Update/upgrade package(s) to last version; means \fIyum update\fR, \fIapt-get upgrade\fR or \fIpip install --upgrade\fR.
Dependent sub packages will be updated/upgraded too, or installed if needed in order to align LAMP installation.
Optional switch -D and -w can include more packages to update.
.br
This action may be also used to add development packages; i.e. after issued \fIproduct install LAMP\fR
a full LAMP server is created without development packages. Typing \fIproduct -D update LAMP\fR adds
develepment packages.
.br
When Odoo is required, \fBproduct\fR update issuing \fIgit pull origin\fR command from github.com
.RE
.br

.br
\fBconfig\fR
.RS
Config package(s) after installation or update. Configuration can issue interactive input request.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBremove\fR
.RS
Remove a package but not all dependent sub packages. Notice: it is not possible remove all LAMP packages together
.br
Warning: this command can remove subpackages used by other software.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBstatus\fR
.RS
Show installation status; display installed packages and packaged to be installed
Optional switch -D and -w can include more packages to check.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBversion\fR
.RS
Show version of installed or selected package(s) and all its dependent packages
Optional switch -D and -w can include more packages.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBwhatis\fR
.RS
Display main packages (identified by single hyphen) and dependent packages (with double hyphens) managed by \fBproduct\fR;
Optional switch -D and -w can include development and graphical interface packages too.
Special swith -E show list of other linux distributions.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBprepare\fR
.RS
Prepare installation files to duplicate this host configuration; users and groups will be exported.
Notice: user with uid less than 400 are not exported.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBexport\fR
.RS
Export configuration files to destination host; require -H host option.
Use scp to copy; openssh must be installed.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBimport\fR
.RS
Import configuration files to duplicate original host.
.br
Warning! This command add new users and groups into system
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-D
Manage development package(s) too. With this option, packages like pkg-dev or pkg-devel are included in list.
Usage for deploy a development machine.
.br
If LAMP installation is required, this switch installes gcc compiler
.TP
.BR \-E \fIlinux_disto\fR
This option activate package(s) for selected Linux distribution. It is useful to see which are package name in other
distribution. \fIlinux_disto\fR may be on of CentOS,CentOS7 or Ubuntu.
\fBWarning!\fR Use this switch just with command \fIwhatis\fR.
Do not use this switch in conjuntion of command \fIinstall\fR or \fIupdate\fR because
operations will fail.
.TP
.BR \-e \fIrepo\fR
This option select Odoo repository from github.com; must be declared if -O switch
is supplied or if odoo product is required.
.br
Value of \fIrepo\fR may be \fBodoo\fR,\fBoca\fR or \fBzeroincombenze\fR
.TP
.BR \-g
Manage graphical interface packages
.TP
.BR \-H \fI[user@]host\fR
Host and user where export config files.
.TP
.BR \-L \fIfilename\fR
Trace file name. Default is /var/log/product.log if user is root, otherwise is ~/product.log

.TP
.BR \-l \fIiso3166\fR
This option select localization package to install with Odoo. It is ignored for all other packages.
.br
Value of \fIiso3166\fR may be one or more of \fBbe\fR, \fBch\fR, \fBes\fR,
\fBfr\fR or \fBit\fR
.TP
.BR \-n
Do nothing (dry-run)
.TP
.BR \-O \fIversion\fR
Select specific Odoo version; \fIversion\fR may be 7 or 8 or 9 or * for all versions;
for furthermore info about odoo installation see \fBinstall\fR command
.TP
.BR \-P \fIpassword\fR
Default password for users, if added by import command.
.TP
.BR \-q
Quiet mode
.TP
.BR \-V
Show version
.TP
.BR \-v
Verbose mode
.TP
.BR \-y
assume yes
.TP
.BR \-1
1st installation
.SH EXAMPLES
Install a new LAMP server, the 1st time, without ask confirmation
.RS
\fBproduct -y1 install LAMP\fR
.RE
Install Odoo 9 with Italian localization:
.RS
\fBproduct install odoo -O9 -lit\fR
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
apg-get, yum, pip
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Antonio Maria Vigliotti (antoniomaria.vigliotti@gmail.com)
