.\" Manpage for lisa.
.\" Contact antoniomaria.vigliotti@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH lisa 8
.SH NAME
lisa \- create and/or manage a LAMP or Odoo server
.SH SYNOPSIS
lisa [options] actions packages [param]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlisa\fR means Linux Install Simplifier App; it is an interactive tool to
install, update, remove, query and manage software for building a complete LAMP
or Odoo server.
.br
LAMP means \fBLinux\fR \fIApache\fR \fIMysql\fR (now \fIMariadb\fR) \fIPHP\fR;
in recent times, \fIPython\fR and \fIPostgresql\fR were added.
.br
Please pay attention software name may be replaced by \fBlisa\fR, based on
Linux distribution and version, in order to build server in standard way,
everytime and everywhere; i.e. when you type \fIlisa install apache2\fR and your
machine is running CentOS, your command is replaced by \fIlisa install httpd\fR
because apache2 package is called httpd on CentOS.
.br
\fBlisa\fR is just a front-end for \fIrpm\fR, \fIyum\fR, \fIdpkg\fR, \fIapt-get\fR,
\fIpip\fR and \fIgit\fR and other commands, because it is not a real package installer.
It requires \fByum\fR on CentOS and Red Hat Enterprise Linux family distros,
\fBapt-get\fR on Ubuntu and Debian family distros. May be \fBlisa\fR installs
some other package if required by installation process, like \fBpip\fR or \fBgit\fR
or \fBwget\fR.
.br
\fBlisa\fR is very useful to manage all the packages needed to build a complete
LAMP server or Odoo server and to check the real installation status.

\fBlisa\fR retrieves information about package from package configuration file.
It is a simple text file, named PKGNAME.lish where PKGNAME is the name of package;
i.e. apache2.lish (everywhere you see PKGNAME in this help, replace PKGNAME with
real package name you will manage)
.br
You can easily build your personal package and distribute your software.
Package configuration file describes your package, dependencies and installation
requirement in simple way.
Type \fIlisa whatis PKGNAME\fR command to see how PKGNAME is defined.
.br
All operations are traced in \fI/var/log/lisa.log\fR; option -L can set another tracelog.
.br
Using -n switch, you can simply use \fIlisa\fR just to see which command you
should issue to manage PKGNAME software. If you use the tool stdout2wiki you can
write your installation script or your documentation about installation-


Action is one of:
.br
* help
.br
* install PKGNAME
.br
* update PKGNAME
.br
* config PKGNAME
.br
* remove PKGNAME
.br
* status PKGNAME
.br
* version PKGNAME
.br
* whatis PKGNAME
.br
* tellme PKGNAME parameter
.br
* info PKGNAME
.br
* build PKGNAME
.br
.br
You can issue more action separated by plus simbol: i.e. \fBinstall+config\fR
.br
You can manage many packages in every single command line; package names must be
separated by comma: i.e. \fBapache2,php5\fR
.br
lisa supports package name using a requirement specifier.
Generally speaking, a requirement specifier is composed of a required package name
followed by optional version specifiers and optional installer. i.e:
.br
\fBlisa install 'odoo>=7.0<10.0!!pip'\fR
.br
Use quotes around package name with specifiers in the shell
because >, <, and ! are processed by shell itself.
Specify version, in this version od lisa, is valid only if installer is pip.
Token !! (double exclamation mark) declare a different installer, if package
may be installed by different software (i.e. yum/apt-get or pip or git)

\fBinstall\fR
.RS
Install selected package(s); before install every package, requirements are checked.
Requirements are declared by \fIReqPkgList\fR parameter, comma separated. The
standard installers like apt-get and yum do not be declared; pip, wget, git and
other installer software must be declared in order to install.
.br
if a package is already installed, is ignored and sub packages are not examined. To install package, \fBlisa\fR choices one
of \fIyum\fR, \fIapt-get\fR or \fIpip\fR.
To install \fBlisa\fR, for the first time download files in /tmp and type \fI./lisa install lisa\fR
.br
See http://wiki.zeroincombenze.org/en/Lisa page for furthermore informations.
.br
With optional switch -D and -w, also other packages are added to installation list.
If package name is LAMP, \fBlisa\fR installes a full server and gcc compiler.
.br
When Odoo is required, \fBlisa\fR installes git and issue \fIgit clone\fR command from github.com
in two ways:
.br
1. If -D switch is set (development environment), Odoo is installed and
deployed with full history in \fB/opt/odoo/\fR\fIver\fR where \fIver\fR is 7.0, 8.0, 9.0 or 10.0;
.br
2. If no development enviroment is set by -D switch, Odoo
is installed without history in \fB/opt/odoo/\fR\fIver\fR, where \fIver\fR is 7.0 or 8.0, 9.0 or 10.0;
.br
The -o switch must be declared to select Odoo repository to clone (see -o option)
.br
The -l switch add localization module during installation; see -l option
.br
The -s switch add sub-module during installation; see -s option
.RE
.br

.br
\fBupdate\fR
.RS
Update/upgrade package(s) to last version; means \fIyum update\fR, \fIapt-get upgrade\fR or \fIpip install --upgrade\fR.
Dependent sub packages will be updated/upgraded too, or installed if needed in order to align LAMP installation.
Optional switch -D and -w can include more packages to update.
.br
This action may be also used to add development packages; i.e. after issued \fIlisa install LAMP\fR
a full LAMP server is created without development packages. Typing \fIlisa -D update LAMP\fR adds
develepment packages.
.br
When Odoo is required, \fBlisa\fR update issuing \fIgit pull origin\fR command from github.com
.br
To update submodules use -l and -s switches
.RE
.br

.br
\fBconfig\fR
.RS
Config package(s) after installation or update. Configuration can issue interactive input requestes.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBremove\fR
.RS
Remove a package but not all dependent sub packages. Notice: it is not possible remove all LAMP packages together
.br
Warning: this command can remove subpackages used by other software.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBstatus\fR
.RS
Show installation status; display installed packages and packaged to be installed
Optional switch -D and -w can include more packages to check.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBversion\fR
.RS
Show version of installed or selected package(s) and all its dependent packages
Optional switch -D and -w can include more packages.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBwhatis\fR
.RS
Display installation package tree; main packages is identified by single hyphen, dependent packages by double hyphens;
Optional switch -D and -w can include development and graphical interface packages too.
Special swith -E show list for the other linux distributions. it is suppled for training.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBprepare\fR
.RS
Prepare installation files to duplicate this host configuration; users and groups will be exported.
Notice: user with uid less than 400 are not exported.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBexport\fR
.RS
Export configuration files to destination host; require -H host option.
Use scp to copy; openssh must be installed.
.RE
.br

.br
\fBimport\fR
.RS
Import configuration files to duplicate original host.
.br
Warning! This command add new users and groups into system
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-D
Manage development package(s) too. With this option, packages like pkg-dev or pkg-devel are included in list.
Usage for deploy a development machine.
.br
If LAMP installation is required, this switch installes gcc compiler
.TP
.BR \-E \fIlinux_disto\fR
This option activate package(s) for selected Linux distribution. It is useful to see which are package name in other
distribution. \fIlinux_disto\fR may be on of CentOS6,CentOS7,Ubuntu12 or Ubuntu14.
\fBWarning!\fR Use this switch just with command \fIwhatis\fR.
Do not use this switch in conjuntion of command \fIinstall\fR or \fIupdate\fR because
operations will fail.
.TP
.BR \-e \f0-4\fR
action on dependecies if error: (0=exit, 1=ignore, 2=if upd do install, 3=do upd/install)
.br
* 0 means exit on error
.br
* 1 means ignore error and continue installation
.br
* 2 means install not existent package if upgrade required
.br
* 3 means install or upgrade in order to be sure package is installed
.TP
.BR \-g
Manage graphical interface packages
.TP
.BR \-H \fI[user@]host\fR
Host and user where export config files.
.TP
.BR \-L \fIfilename\fR
Trace file name. Default is /var/log/lisa.log if user is root, otherwise is ~/lisa.log

.TP
.BR \-l \fIiso3166\fR
This option select localization package to install with Odoo. It is ignored for all other packages.
.br
Value of \fIiso3166\fR may be one or more of \fBbe\fR, \fBch\fR, \fBes\fR,
\fBfr\fR or \fBit\fR
.TP
.BR \-n
Do nothing (dry-run)
.TP
.BR \-o \fIodoo_repo\fR
This option select Odoo repository from github.com; must be declared if odoo is to be installed.
.br
Value of \fIrepo\fR may be \fBodoo\fR,\fBoca\fR or \fBzeroincombenze\fR
.TP
.BR \-P \fIpassword\fR
Default password for users, if added by import command.
.TP
.BR \-q
Quiet mode
.TP
.BR \-s \fImodules\fR
This option selects Odoo repositories to add during installation; repository name must be present in github.com;
i.e. to install OCA/server-tools command line is like follow:
.br
\fBlisa install odoo -oOCA -sserver-tools\fR
.br
It is possible install more packages, name are comma separated (i.e. -sserver-tools,bank-payment)
.br
Sub modules must be all in the same main repository selected by -o switch. It is not possible mix submodules of
different repositories.
.br
Follow submodules are added with OCA repository:
.br
account-invoicing account-payment partner-contact knowledge bank-payment
.br
This switch may be used with update command for install sub-module after Odoo installation
.TP
.BR \-V
Show version
.TP
.BR \-v
Verbose mode
.TP
.BR \-y
assume yes
.TP
.BR \-1
1st installation, do upgrade of all installed modules
.SH EXAMPLES
Install a new LAMP server, the 1st time, without ask confirmation
Install a new LAMP server with apache2,mysql or mariadb,php,python and postgresql,
without asking confirmation (see option switch -y)
.RS
\fBlisa -y1 install LAMP\fR
.RE
Install Odoo 8.0 from OCA/OCB repository with Italian localisation:
.RS
\fBproduct -y install 'odoo==8.0' -ooca -lit\fR
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
apg-get, yum, pip
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Antonio Maria Vigliotti (antoniomaria.vigliotti@gmail.com)
